Cory Paringer 51

[Abstract Animation]https://github.com/corypari/120-work/tree/master/hw-5

1. I struggled with this assignment much more than some of the ones in the past, but fortunately pushed through. This week I learned how to use a mixture of our previous weeks drawing lessons with animations and interactivity. The lessons and p5 documentation taught me how to create drawings that would move according to custom variables of data that either I could define myself or select from options like windowHeight. I focused on trying to create a drawing that would challenge myself and include a lot of movement and understanding of where I am placing objects and translation rotation points. For the assignment I animated a rainbow rotating around a thumbs-up that grows bigger and smaller with the mouse and windows movements.

2. This weeks assignment required the normal singular sketch.js document, in which I created a javascript drawing of a rainbow and thumbs up being animated. This primarily included setting up custom variables, specifically in my case rainBow, in order to more easily allow my rainbow's numerous arcs to rotate from a central location together. I used a series of translations and equations to achieve what eventually was a functioning scene of the two forms changing with the mouse.

3. I ran into a big issue this week that actually led to me frustration. When I originally wrote my code the rotation for the rainbow did not want to rotate from the bottom-center of the document even when the translation was set to (windowWidth*0.5, windowHeight). I fought with my code and tried to find any error I possibly could, even at one point going into the bug inspector in a browser. I wrote the code for what I thought would make the rainbow rotate correctly and saved it, and decided to try and fix it another time in the future. However, the next time I opened the document up, expecting it to not work like last time, it worked perfectly. For whatever reason the issue solved itself before I needed to make any changes. The rainbow seemed to rotate perfectly how I wanted it all of the sudden.

4. I would like to learn how to perform division opperations using variables that are not static numbers. For example, I ran into an issue trying to create an opacity level that scaled with my mouse movement. Since opacity runs at a 0-1 scale and my mouseX or mouseY variable would be between 0-windowHeight or Width, the function would only work if I could convert the windowHeight or width to a 0-1 value. This would require me to perform a function like mouseY/windowHeight, wich would create a 0-1 ratio scale out of my mouse placement. When I tried to use this formula it would not work, however if I used static numbers like 10/200 or 10*0.02 it would work. Is there a better way to write an equation using variables? I eventually just settled for scaling my thumb with mouseY since that did seem to work.

5. This cycle I had too many of my own issues to focus on any others. While I took to google for most of my issues, or returned a day later to try and look at my code again, I regret not asking the class if they experienced any issues like mine. Although I eventually fixed my problems they probably would have been fixed faster on the forum or could have been helpful to the other students.
