hw-10/readme.md, before:

Cory Paringer, 51

[Live Sketch Link](https://github.com/corypari/120-work/tree/master/hw-7)


# HW 7 | Describe then Alter the Bouncing Ball

## Description of What the Original Code is Doing


Why is it working the way it is?

The operation declares various variables that will represent the x and y coordinates of an ellipse that is drawn continuously. It creates a variable through ball.x and ball.y that continually adds itself plus the ball.delta x or y * ball.scale_x or y. This means that it will continually decrease or increase by ball.delta_x * ball.scale_x or y. Two if statements make it so that the ball.x and y variables from earlier are either -1 or +1 * scale_x or y depending on whether the ball crosses the boundaries of the window. This both makes it so the ball will start the animation by decreasing by 1 in the X and Y axis as well as makes it do the opposite when it touches the edge of the window. It then appears to bounce.
The ball.scale_x and y are then remapped to a value between 0.5 and 10 depending on where the mouse is placed when it clicks. This executes only once since it is a function of mousePressed(). After clicking, the ball will increase or decrease in slope and intensity of how far it moves depending on the mouse.

What does each line do?

Line 3 declares a variable object ball. Line 4-10 declare object variables for x and y values, scale, and 'delta' which will be called upon later to draw an ellipse- and also will be updated with an if or statement. Line 12 sets up the function allowing 13 through 15 to create a canvas that is 400xWindowwidth and a white background. Line 19 declares our draw loop. In line 21 and 22 ball.x and ball.y are redefined as the delta variables, meaning our X and Y values for our ellipse later will continually be added to it's if statement * the ball.scale_x or y (1). This makes it continually decrease or increase by 1 depending on the lines below. Lines 25 through 29 set up two if statements that make it so if our X or Y values (ball.x and ball.y) exceed the documents width or height, it will execute a redefinition of the X or Y value (whichever exceeds first) that multiplies itself times -1 to invert the value. This sends it backwards and keeps it within the window- bouncing. Line 32-34 draws the ellipse and places ball.x, ball.y, ball.width as the values to make it continually draw and call upon the new X and Y values. Lines 35-38 create a mousePressed() function that will make the ball.scalex and y be multiplied by the mouseX and mouseY position, mapped to a value of 0.5 to 10. This makes the ball appear to steepen or ease in slope.

How can you make the ball change direction?

I think to change the direction of the ball so is drawn and first bounces to the left from the right would be to change the ball.x value to be -= ball.delta_x * ball*scale_x. This would have the value decrease from its start instead of increase.




## How did you alter the sketch?


First I confirmed my theory that the ball would change direction by changing ball.x by making it be ball.x -= ball.delta_x*ball.scale_x instead of +. After changing the direction of the ball I moved it to start from 1, 1. Next I changed the intensity of the movement by increasing the X and Y variables to 5. I added a noStroke(); to the circles and also made it so that they decreased in size initially. I made an if statement that made it so when the ball grew larger than 1/4 the window size it would modulo and reset to a value of 2. This allowed for some cool animations, when combined with clicking the mouse. I then made the mouse click also change the color fill randomly, and also the opacity and the speed. The ball also now grows with the movement of my mouse.

Commit message:

HW 10 change readme
readme update

hw-10/readme.md, after:

Cory Paringer, 51

[Function Sketch](https://github.com/corypari/120-work/tree/master/hw-7)

This week I decided to create an original function sketch because I figured diving in would be a better way to understand it. That, and I initially ran into hours worth of problems by trying to nest my mousePressed or mouseMoved functions. I could not seem to get my ball from the previous sketch that bouces to continually update when I converted it to a function- and I also could not get it to decrease in size or color when clicked / moved. I instead created completely new functions that would essentially act as the body for various letters. I could then assign a common X variable in them to be able to control the placement of the dots / letters more accurately. I bound the functions to be drawn within another function, then called for the outside function in draw- this allowed my letters to all be drawn from one function expression. I could then also even more fine tune its position by updating it's translate position.

Each function recieved its own version of the fill(random()), so that each letter would be a different color, but each dot within the letters would be the same random value.

I am currently struggling most with remembering when to and when not to declare variables outside of the setup for new functions. I also am confused as how to get my mousePressed to still work when a function is drawn in the draw section.
